# IRM_ETH_lab
Lab Solutions from the 2020 IRM course. Due to cancelation of all in-class activity, we only handed in preLab work.

I have uploaded merely my file structure during/after the course. I do not guarantee correctness or completeness. Please make sure you read the instructions on *your* lab carefully and make sure you answer the questions related to *your* instructions.

Lab00:
The objective of this lab is to review the basics of the C programming language. We will learn:
* Basic C syntax
* How to compile a program using the GNU C compiler
* Hexadecimal and binary number systems
* Reading user inputs from the terminal
* Writing a function library

Lab01:
Last week, we have built a program that reads two 16 bit hexadecimal numbers from the user, and
displays the summation in binary format on the console. In this lab, we will try to bring this binary represen-
tation into our physical world using light emitting diodes (LEDs). The objective of this lab is to introduce
the principles of embedded computing along with a simple architecture. This week, we will learn:
* Architecture of embedded computing
* Programming a micro-controller
* Communicating with a micro-controller
* Accessing digital input-output (IO) pins on the micro-controller
* Controlling digital IO pins of a micro-controller programatically from a PC

Lab02:
This week we will interface an analog Hall-effect sensor to the UDOO. A Hall-effect sensor is a
transducer that varies its output voltage (V) in response to a magnetic field (milli-Tesla, mT). We will use
it to measure the magnetic field generated by a stationary magnet. The sensor response itself is linear, i.e.
the voltage readout is linearly related to the input magnetic field, but the magnetic field changes nonlinearly
with the distance. In this 1-week lab module, we will learn:
* How to interface a magnetic field sensor with analog output to the microcontroller
* How to fit a parametric model to the experimentally obtained distance - magnetic field data in MATLAB

Lab03:
In this lab, we will introduce the concept of analog signal processing by building and testing circuits
with discrete electronic components.
We will learn:
* How to generate periodic signals of arbitrary magnitude and frequency using the microcontroller.
* How to operate and use a digital oscilloscope to display and study signal waveforms.
* How to use discrete electronic components to build electrical circuits.
* How to design analog low pass filters according to application requirements.
* How to use the LM319N integrated circuit as a signal comparator and convert sinusoidal signals into
square-wave signals.

Lab03_2 (week 4):
This Prelab will help you understand and apply the concepts of the Digital Filtering Lecture.

Lab04
In this lab, we will introduce servo motors and gears by solving some simple taks. We will learn:
* How servo motors work and how to control them using the Arduino interface.
* How to increase/decrease the torque and run length of the servo motors using combinations of gears.
* How to design gear trains for specific applications and requirements

Lab05
In this lab, you will learn to implement basic algorithms in computer vision for robotics. We will use
the OpenCV library to detect and track objects by using two different tracking algorithms.

Lab06
Design Challenge for desinfecting pubic facilities

Lab07
The purpose of this week’s lab is to model and simulate a PID controller for our ball balancing system.
